a lot of it just comes down to
consistency and doing something long
enough and what we're doing isn't rocket
science there's a lot of other people
that can do the same thing but they're
just not willing to put in the blood
sweat into your system
so what is it particularly about SEO the
excite shoe
it's a great way for the little guy to
get tons of traffic without having big
budgets
yeah but what you mentioned the little
guy there
so uh do you do you specialize in
working with just big corporate
companies or is it you help the little
guy as well
uh we work with medium businesses all
the way to large corporations we have
some small businesses but uh
um you know typically most of Revenue
does come from large corporations what I
mean that I love it because a little guy
can get results you can go use tools and
learn a lot on your own and do SEO
without having a big money investment if
you're willing to put in the time and
energy yourself
a lot of other marketing forms don't
exist uh uh or they exist but they don't
provide those kind of results without
money right some of the other marketing
channels out there
you have to put in money to get results
SEO organic social there's only a few
channels where you can really do well
that really exists for the small guy
that doesn't have any money
okay
now
obviously you have got a massive
personal brand yourself
right what what what's the thing that
you did
to the really
accelerated your own personal brand
but there wasn't anything I I I I did
not try to build a personal brand there
wasn't one thing that I did when you do
something long enough and I don't think
my personal Brand's that big there's so
many bigger personal Brands than mine
but when you do something for a call at
20 plus years and you try to do a decent
job at it you know hopefully you build
some sort of brand whether it's personal
corporate maybe a bit of both
um but nothing there you're not going to
become an overnight success there's not
one thing that builds a personal brand
there's a lot of little things that add
up over time from an outside perspective
they don't really see it that way but
that usually is the real case it's a lot
of little things done for a very long
time and done consistently that build up
a personal brand
so when when you say a long time if
somebody's starting off to build up
their corporate or their personal brand
music
when you do consistent things is it
before you really start to get known
three to five years that's a
conservative estimate you know somewhere
in that time range you'll start getting
more well known sounds like a long time
but most people uh are looking for that
one year solution and it's very rare
right so yeah I mean I mean a lot of
people look for the quick wins in the
industry do you think there's any do
quick wins exist
quick wins sometimes exists uh it was
you know when when you say quick wins a
lot of people just get lucky
um but here's a great example so
everyone in the SEO industry is familiar
with chat gbt it's a project from open
AI open AI was founded in 2015. Chad gbt
did not just come out this month or last
month or the last year they've been
working on the whole Vision whole
product since 2015. it's not an
overnight success Sam Altman is an
overnight success before this white
combinator he did a lot of other things
before that did a lot of Angel Investing
he's been uh entrepreneur for ages the
point I'm getting at is
everything worthwhile just takes time
yes sometimes people get lucky and
things just blow up overnight but it's
extremely rare that's like pulling a
needle in a haystack
consistency in the key to anything he
marketing then Junior
I think consistency and learning from
what's Happening because there's so many
algorithms and changes you gotta
experiment learn what's happening and
adapt
yeah now I'm not sure how many videos
you've done it must be quite an a lot
because I mean social media is just
flooded with all your videos you think
that
being consistent in all platforms with
all your various videos really helps
it does you know it drives good branding
for corporate personal it drives leads
um I would always recommend it to people
you know what we do there's nothing
magic at our agency NP digital we're one
of the fastest running ad agencies uh
according to ad week and a lot of it
just comes down to consistency and doing
something long enough and what we're
doing isn't rocket science there's a lot
of other people that can do the same
thing but they're just not willing to
put in the Blood Sweat and Tears
I mean one of the the conversation I
have with business owners and
individuals is well
okay I get the consistency but what do I
talk about what do I do videos on I mean
obviously yourself you've done thousands
of videos where do you get your
inspiration from
I get my inspiration from just reading
and also talking to people and figuring
out what pain points and issues they
have great example of this you can go on
Google type in any keywords within your
industry and you'll also see people also
asked people also ask is what people are
curious about you can then go and start
creating content around all those topics
it could be video could be text-based
it's up to you
right
so it's realistically just
being what people want to know
yes
brilliant that really is all about
content creation it all comes down to
what do people want to know if you
create that you'll do well if you create
content around what people don't care
for then it wouldn't matter
so do you have a big team behind you
um for creating content
not a big team uh one video person for
all my short four one video person that
I see once a month for all my long form
even the short form I see them once a
month as well short for my team for a
few hours a month the long form I see
him for maybe like three four hours a
month uh um
two other people on the tech space side
so a small team four five if I had a
guess
all right so so it's not a massive team
then
do you say your personal time it takes
what a two three days a month
um
so personal time to create content
probably
[Music]
if I had a guess
24 hours a month Max including
podcasting and everything
okay so it's a lot less than I actually
thought actually
yeah that's a Max there's someone's
worth much less than that yeah okay and
talking The Wider mods in Industry if
businesses don't have the budget to
employ
um an urgency or a freelancer what what
could those people do
do it themselves look you can bust out
your phone and start recording and
creating content and uploading it the
issue is is people don't want to put in
the time it has nothing to do with
hiring that's why I said SEO is the one
of the only channels that really work
for the small media business not because
they need to pay my agency but with SEO
and organic social you can do those
without having to pay anyone money you
can put in the time yourself and learn
it just people aren't willing to do it
right yeah you can learn paid
advertising too but you got to spend
money on the paid ads so it's just like
that's tougher for a small business but
SEO and organic social is very doable
for businesses of all sizes
so
if somebody had to choose between going
out and writing content pieces or doing
videos what would you say would create
the biggest theme park between both
people spend more time on videos than
text-based content at least I was
reading some stats uh a few days ago but
that was the latest stats that I read I
forgot what percentage or time but it
was videos dominated more than
text-based content
um so I would tell people to focus on
video first okay now just to get to know
you as a person
right what does your day-to-day look
like
my day-to-day is a lot of phone calls
meetings some content creation uh
answering emails uh strategy stuff
working on client accounts
you know typical normal day spending
time with kids
watching some TV like news I watch BBC
quite a bit
okay now you you rebranded your agency
from Neil Patel to MP
what was what was the reason behind that
we originally why they call it NP
digital we couldn't get the domain name
and then eventually the person sold it
ah
tickle is up
yeah we want it from day one we tried
getting it the guy said no when the
economy started going down a little bit
they hit us back up saying hey do you
still want to buy it same price and we
said yes
all right so with MP digital how big of
an agency is it we're between seven and
eight hundred employees we're US Canada
UK
Brazil Australia India Singapore Germany
we're about to have Portugal and Spain
what I'm saying these regions we
actually have like a managing director
or someone leading up a specific region
but we have people in many different
regions on top of that as well but my
guess is we'll probably have be in over
20 countries with leaders in each of
those countries by the end of 2023. so
how
the growth of your agency
it gave us an amazing start because it
provided us leads but um you know
Believe It or Not majority of our
revenues 70-ish percent comes from
uh employee referrals client referrals
uh
uh and just Word of Mouth
right
okay so literally I think it's actually
like 76 to be exact comes from those
three channels right now this is why I
love doing uh videos like this because
perception was
like the majority of people go to your
agency because of your name
no
you have to remember when you are
working with large companies let's say
you want to work with the fortune 100.
they don't care about Neil Patel they
care about who are the people working on
my account and what are their skill sets
and what experience they have in my
industry that's going to produce results
so it's all about the team who work
within the Asian Center
not just the team who works with an
agency but the team who is on their
account that's who they care about more
than anything else
right okay so like when you're working
with these big companies
they've got to requirements you have to
put in what sort of pre-sales prep work
you have to put in in order just to be
be at the table to pitch to these
corporates
there's not an easy answer for that
because these big corporations all have
unique requirements so you have to put
in varies based on their needs a lot of
times they send out an RFP request for a
proposal they tell you the requirements
and then you either decide if you wanna
put it in the energy or not you could
end up sometimes spend a hundred two
hundred thousand dollars to try to get a
deal and you may not win it
wow
I'm gonna say so you really need to have
a solid base behind you and financial
backing in order to really go after
these bigger contracts to start with
correct yes well I or you could just put
in your own time right
um for me the reason we have those
expenses because we have so much staff
so then we're paying for those hours and
if we don't close it we wasted the money
but I think it's always worth it
Okay so
um you say you're in all these various
countries how involved are you
personally within the agency
very involved that's what I do full time
right so
is your own focus on building this one
this agency up or do you have over all
this entities you focus on no no just
focus on agency
right on my time
oh your time and um
moving forward
is what you personally what's your
personal Journey looking like in the
future
it's the same I don't really see it
changing Focus all the time on growing
the agency and try to become one of the
biggest Global ad agencies out there
what's your why
why why
I just love it
I'm having fun I love it it's just
passionate about marketing has nothing
to do with money or anything that is
just a goal and I want to try to achieve
it
right so it really is because
of the work you're doing
[Music]
so how important is
um
obviously family how does family fit
into everything for you
family fits in great I'm at home I work
from home
um and I see my kids often throughout
the whole day and I play with them and I
read to them and all that kind of good
stuff
so
um yeah I try to be there as a parent
all the major events and everything like
that and you know try to support my kids
and whatever they decide to do in life
and whatever makes them happy
so
when you saying that you work from home
do you don't you see a need for you to
be like in the office with the teams
oh we're virtual
oh everything's virtual is it aha post
covered we move virtual all right okay
that I wasn't aware of
so yeah we still have offices barely
anyone goes into them but we're virtual
right and do you find
um office space vs virtual is a good
move
uh we like virtual both are fine there's
pros and cons to both there's nothing
wrong with either it depends what a
company wants that's why we have a bit
of both then people can either go into
office or they can work from home we
don't force them with any uh specific
requirement we let them decide okay now
going moving on to SEO obviously this is
uh the SEO interview
um what what do you thinks
missing in the industry
do you mean people focus on tactics not
enough people are focusing uh enough on
user experience and truly trying to
Delight them I'll talk about user
experience just from like a low time
perspective I've done a user experience
from like how do you just create amazing
products amazing Services amazing
content and just try to Delight that
some people do I wouldn't say it's
totally missing but that's not the main
focus people like oh let me build more
links let me you know optimize this you
know element in within my code to try to
like game the system I was like well if
you put the user first and do what's
best for them in the long run you should
win you should as you know I I put an
asterisk around sure yeah I'm gonna say
and if nothing if you could have the
power to change something within the
industry what would it be
um
I don't know if I would change anything
you know I don't really see anything
wrong with it
been in it for a long time people are
friendly it's nice people try to learn
more you know it's it's a good industry
good
so first time I've heard somebody say
that
yeah everyone has their own take but I
love the industry it's it's done wonders
for me and wonders for a lot of people
and when I first got into industry
people are really uh welcoming with open
arms and you know I think it's a great
community
yeah I was going to say how obviously
you're giving your time up to be on uh
this interview now is what other things
are you involved in in order to just
help people
uh
I create content we try to educate and
help through that but I'm actually not
that involved in much my wife is so I
try to focus on uh building a business
my wife focuses on philanthropy and
tries to help do that so she spends her
full time raising kids and uh helping
out a lot of different organizations
wonderful
but it's real it's a really good feeling
when you you know you can help others
in life
it can be I don't really look at it as
like a feeling I like it as more like a
you know it's just like
there's a lot of things that are wrong
and as humans if we have the ability to
help others out you should right I I
don't look it as a feeling what
makes me feel better isn't the helping
other people out it's actually seeing
things improve you know it's just like
there's so many kids out there that
people are like oh they don't live in
good areas they're not going to succeed
well if you gave them the tools and the
education why can't they they're hungry
who says they're not smart who says they
can't accomplish amazing things who says
they can't build multi-billion dollar
companies who says they can't cure
cancer and for me it's more like it's
sad to see a lot of people in this world
not have opportunities and others help
them out and helping them yes it's you
could say it is a good feeling but
what's a better feeling for me is seeing
change and then seeing the people that
you help out try to help other people as
well and just it continue and hopefully
you know it'll make the world a better
place uh I say more so like what's a
good feeling is like what Elon Musk is
doing what he's doing is tremendous
right trying to make it where people can
live on multiple civilizations not have
a single point of failure being earth
like that's crazy in a good way you know
I don't have the capability to do what
he does it's not just even money sure I
don't have the money he does but I don't
also have the brain power and into life